tonight Israel's military is claiming 
Hamas has lost control of the north of 
the territory after weeks of Relentless 
Israeli bombing Jeremy Bowen has been 
with the Israeli defense forces inside 
the territory while the BBC retained 
editorial control of his reports the 
sections featuring the Israeli military 
have been cleared by the 
IDF like young soldiers in many wars 
Israeli troops looked excited not 
apprehensive as they made their final 
preparations to join Israel's invasion 
of the Gaza 
Strip they're moving in as the war 
approaches a critical point their 
colleagues already inside the strip have 
surrounded Gaza City these men might be 
part of the next stage locating Hamas 
tunnels and fighting Street by Street 
Israel's primee Minister promised his 
country a mighty Vengeance against Hamas 
but with so much Firepower what one 
question is Israel following Joe Biden's 
advice not to be blinded by rage to 
defend itself but also protect the lives 
of Palestinian civilians we went into 
Gaza with the Israeli Army on condition 
we didn't reveal their positions video 
shot after they took us through the Gap 
in the fence into Gaza though not this 
script had to be submitted to their 
military census we got out of the back 
of an armored vehicle and walked into or 
Wasteland after a month of air strikes 
and more than a week of tanks and troops 
every building I saw was damaged or 
destroyed they wanted to show us what 
they said was a Hamas weapons Factory in 
this wrecked structure this is a scuba 
diving equipment that's uh meant to come 
from from SE from their land to our 
land and they made drones that Dro bombs 
he said in this Workshop places like 
this he said originated the 7th of 
October attacks but upstairs was a 
family apartment the soldiers said it 
was more proof that Hamas used civilians 
as human Shields building bombs 
underneath a bedroom used by children 
the officer said habas not Israel was 
responsible for civilian deaths we know 
intelligence we know what we hit we know 
the targets they're 
approved by the by our Command it's that 
I wake up and my my objective is to to 
ruin the the city I aim for enemy an 
enemy only and I use all in my power to 
hit the enemy only so judging by the the 
destruction here the enemy was 
everywhere you'd say yes 
yes Israel's strategic equation measures 
the destruction and death it's brought 
to Palestinians in Gaza civilians as 
well as Hamas against the pain of its 
own people 
and the importance of making them feel 
safe 
again The overriding Impressions I have 
from being here is first of all the 
level of force that Israel has brought 
to bear on the Gaza Strip a vast amount 
of military power in 
addition the level of Destruction 
massive destruction thousands of homes 
gone Israel says military necessities 
self-defense be's view was different she 
said it was because of Israel's 
bombardment because nowhere was safe 
because there was no food or drinking 
water for the children and because 
Israel had bombed the 
bakeries Israel said 50,000 Palestinians 
moved South after it promised safe 
passage Hamas released more videos of 
its fight against Israel in Gaza 
streets it claims victories but but it 
is vastly 
outgun hanas cannot win a toe-to-toe 
fight with Israel but guilla tactics hit 
and run might drag The War Out for 
months and force the seiz fire more 
Israeli tanks were moving forward as we 
left the Gaza Strip this evening 
Israel's Western allies support The 
Invasion but America's reminders about 
the laws of war and the pressure for 
humanitarian pauses suggest even 
Israel's closest allies are quizy about 
this War's human 
catastrophe Jeremy boen BBC news 
Gaza Israel clearly tightening its grip 
on the territory and we'll hear from 
Jeremy uh with a little bit more in a 
moment but a warning tonight from the US 
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin 
saying there should be no Israeli 
occupation of Gaza when the current 
conflict comes to an end he was speaking 
after a meeting of G7 foreign ministers 
in Japan and he called for the territory 
and the West Bank here to be United 
under the Palestinian 
Authority it's also clear that Israel 
cannot occupy Gaza um now the reality is 
that there may be uh a need for some 
transition period uh at the end of the 
conflict but it is imperative that um 
the Palestinian people uh be Central to 
uh to governance uh in uh in G 
and in the West Bank as well Anthony 
blinkin speaking earlier today let's 
return to Jeremy who's there now in 
southern Israel but as we've seen has 
been with Israeli forces inside Gaza 
Jeremy I don't think there's anyone who 
believes the Hamas are going to win this 
war clearly the Americans are looking 
towards the end game when the fighting 
is over and that was a very clear 
warning how do you think things could 
pan out once the conflict comes to an 
end 
first of all don't forget Hamas probably 
have a different definition of victory 
to Israel if they can keep fighting as 
far as they're concerned they won't be 
beaten I think that once the fighting 
stops through whatever means then 
perhaps the really difficult part starts 
because the Palestinians will still be 
there the problem will still be there 
who will run the territory the Israelis 
have said Mr Netanyahu the prime 
minister has said they want to retain 
security control so that implies some 
kind of Palestinian governance which 
Palestinians would like to do that on 
Israel's say so the Americans believe 
the only way forward is to move towards 
that old idea the old failed idea up to 
now of a two-state solution in other 
words independent Palestine alongside 
Israel now this current Israeli 
government is viscerally opposed to such 
an o which would for example mean that 
it would have to pull back settlers from 
the West Bank where at the moment the 
settlers it backs are pushing very hard 
against the Palestinians and the 
Palestinians say that they're running 
riot 
